[Docs] Voyager v1.6 (#20006)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/migrate/live-fall-forward.md

> --parallel-jobs <COUNT>

Reviewer: change the arguments `--ff-db..` -> `--source-replica-db..`

In this scenario, the [get data-migration-report](#get-data-migration-report) command reports an incorrect imported row count because it doesn't take into account the deleted rows.

For more details, refer to the GitHub issue [#360](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/360).

    {{< /warning >}}

### Cutover to source-replica (Optional)

During this phase, switch your application over from the target YugabyteDB database to the source-replica database. As this step is optional, perform it _only_ if the target YugabyteDB database is not working as expected.

Keep monitoring the metrics displayed for `export data from target` and `import data to source-replica` processes. After you notice that the import of events to the source-replica database is catching up to the exported events from the target YugabyteDB database, you are ready to cutover. You can use the "Remaining events" metric displayed in the import data to source-replica process to help you determine the cutover.

Perform the following steps as part of the cutover process:

1. Quiesce your target YugabyteDB database, that is stop application writes.

> 1. Perform a cutover after the exported events rate ("Export rate" in the metrics table) drops to using the following command:

Reviewer 2: drops to what?

    ```sh
    # Replace the argument values with those applicable for your migration.
    yb-voyager initiate cutover to source-replica --export-dir <EXPORT_DIR>
    ```

    Refer to [cutover to source-replica](../../reference/cutover-archive/cutover/#cutover-to-source-replica) for details about the arguments.

    The `initiate cutover to source-replica` command stops the `export data from target` process, followed by the `import data to source-replica` process after it has imported all the events to the source-replica database.

1. Wait for the cutover process to complete. Monitor the status of the cutover process using the following command:

    ```sh
    # Replace the argument values with those applicable for your migration.
    yb-voyager cutover status --export-dir <EXPORT_DIR>
    ```

    Refer to [cutover status](../../reference/cutover-archive/cutover/#cutover-status) for details about the arguments.

> 1. Setup indexes and triggers to the source-replica database manually. Also, re-enable the foreign key and check constraints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set up indexes and triggers to the source-replica database manually. Also, re-enable the foreign key and check constraints.
```

> 1. Verify your migration. After the schema and data import is complete, the automated part of the database migration process is considered complete. You should manually run validation queries on both the source and source-replica databases to ensure that the data is correctly migrated. A sample query to validate the databases can include checking the row count of each table.

Reviewer 2: source and source replica? not target and source-replica?

Reviewer: yes correct target and source-replica

    {{< warning title = "Caveat associated with rows reported by get data-migration-report" >}}

Suppose you have a scenario where,

- [import data to source-replica](#import-data-to-source-replica) command fails.
- To resolve this issue, you delete some of the rows from the split files.
- After retrying, the import data to target command completes successfully.

In this scenario, [get data-migration-report](#get-data-migration-report) command reports incorrect imported row count; because it doesn't take into account the deleted rows.

For more details, refer to the GitHub issue [#360](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/360).

    {{< /warning >}}

### End migration

> To end the migration, you need to clean up the export directory (export-dir), and Voyager state ( Voyager-related metadata) stored in the target YugabyteDB database and source-replica database.

Reviewer 2: not the source as well?

Author: Yes it should be there I think. @priyanshi-yb leaving this open for you to confirm . I'm making the change though.

Reviewer: No source should not be there in case of fall-forward. Actually Voyager state is only created if there is any import operation on the database but in case of fall-forward there is no import operation on source hence no cleanup is required

Reviewer: @aishwarya24 pls rever the change

        --save-migration-reports <true, false, yes, no, 1, 0> \
        # Set optional argument to store a back up of any of the above arguments.
        --backup-dir <BACKUP_DIR>
```

Note that after you end the migration, you will _not_ be able to continue further. If you want to back up the schema, data, log files, and the migration reports (`analyze-schema` report and `get data-migration-report` output) for future reference, the command provides an additional argument `--backup-dir`, using which you can pass the path of the directory where the backup content needs to be saved (based on what you choose to back up).

Refer to [end migration](../../reference/end-migration/) for more details on the arguments.

## Limitations

In addition to the Live migration [limitations](../live-migrate/#limitations), the following additional limitations apply to the fall-forward feature:

- Fall-forward is unsupported with a YugabyteDB cluster running on [YugabyteDB Managed](../../../yugabyte-cloud).
- [SSL Connectivity](../../reference/yb-voyager-cli/#ssl-connectivity) is unsupported for export or streaming events from YugabyteDB during `export data from target`.

> - yb-voyager provides limited datatypes support with YugabyteDB CDC during `export data from target` for datatypes such as DECIMAL, and Timestamp.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what this means
- support for data types during CDC is limited, eg, Decimal and Timestamp are not supported; OR
- support for Decimal and Timestamp data types is limited during CDC; 
- or something else entirely

            --target-db-name <TARGET_DB_NAME> \
            --target-db-user <TARGET_DB_USER> \
            --target-db-schema <TARGET_DB_SCHEMA> \
            --post-import-data true
    ```

    Refer to [import schema](../../reference/schema-migration/import-schema/) for details about the arguments.

1. Verify your migration. After the schema and data import is complete, the automated part of the database migration process is considered complete. You should manually run validation queries on both the source and target database to ensure that the data is correctly migrated. A sample query to validate the databases can include checking the row count of each table.

    {{< warning title = "Caveat associated with rows reported by get data-migration-report" >}}

Suppose you have the following scenario:

- [import data to target](#import-data-to-target) command fails.
- To resolve this issue, you delete some of the rows from the split files.
- After retrying, the import data to target command completes successfully.

> In this scenario, the [get data-migration-report](#get data-migration-report) command reports an incorrect imported row count because it doesn't take into account the deleted rows.

Author: nice catch. Thanks!

Refer to [end migration](../../reference/end-migration/) for more details on the arguments.

## Limitations

In addition to the Live migration [limitations](../live-migrate/#limitations), the following additional limitations apply to the fall-forward feature:

- Fall-forward is unsupported with a YugabyteDB cluster running on [YugabyteDB Managed](../../../yugabyte-cloud).
- [SSL Connectivity](../../reference/yb-voyager-cli/#ssl-connectivity) is unsupported for export or streaming events from YugabyteDB during `export data from target`.
- You need to manually disable constraints on the source-replica database.
- yb-voyager provides limited datatypes support with YugabyteDB CDC during `export data from target` for datatypes such as DECIMAL, and Timestamp.

> - You need to manually delete the stream ID of YugabyteDB CDC created by Voyager during `export data from target`.

Reviewer: @aishwarya24

1. Stop [archive changes](#archive-changes-optional).

> 

Reviewer: remove this point.
